Updating the roadmap based on recent discussions within the Liqo maintainers (#2475)
liqotech/liqo: ROADMAP.md

# Roadmap

> The next release of Liqo will include many breaking changes, due to the necessity to bring more modularity to the project, a cleaner and more granular control (e.g., public APIs to control the most important features of Liqo), and other features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next release of Liqo (`v1.0.0`) will include many breaking changes, due to the necessity to bring more modularity and flexibility to the project, a cleaner and more granular control (e.g., fully declarative APIs to control the most important features of Liqo), and other features.
```

> Hence, the Liqo team has decided to release the most breaking updates within a single release, hence limiting the disruption (and potentially painful migration strategies) to the current adopters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence, the Liqo team has decided to publish incremental release candidates for the `v1.0.0`, allowing early adopters to try and discover the new features and potentiality limiting the disruption (and painful migration strategies) to the current adopters.
```

> Hence, the original plans to release v0.11 in Feb 2024 have been rescheduled to Jun 2024, with the following main features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The most relevant features for this release are the following:

* [Feature] Liqo is divided into 3 core modules (network, authentication, and offloading) that are independent of each other and can be individually configured (e.g. you can enable offloading or resource reflection without necessarily setting up the network connectivity between the clusters).
* [Feature] Fully declarative APIs to configure and control Liqo.
This approach allows users to support gitops and automation use cases, as Liqo can be completely configured via CRs, without necessarily relying on liqoctl (e.g., perform peering declaratively).
```

> * [Feature] Complete re-design of the network fabric, involving a new communication model _inside_ the cluster (i.e., pod-based communication instead of host-based services; geneve instead of vxlan) and a new, simplified model for the intra-cluster connectivity (still based on Wireguard, but more robust and open to other technologies).
> * [Feature] CRD-based network modularity. All the network components can be individually controlled with new CRDs, hence enabling the different components of Liqo to be turned on/off and configured in a more granular way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Feature] Network module: complete re-design of the network fabric, involving a new communication model _inside_ the cluster (i.e., pod-based communication instead of host-based services; `geneve` instead of `vxlan`) and a new, simplified model for the intra-cluster connectivity (still based on Wireguard, but more robust and open to other technologies).
All the network components can be individually controlled with new CRDs, hence enabling the different components of Liqo to be turned on/off and configured in a more granular way.
* [Feature] Authentication module: the peering authentication between clusters has been greatly simplified and is now fully declarative.
It does not require exposing a dedicated auth service like in old versions and no API server exposition is necessary from the consumer side.
The new `ResourceSlice` CR allows a more granular and flexible control of the resources requested to cluster providers.
* [Feature] Offloading module: it is now possible to have multiple virtual nodes targeting the same remote provider cluster.
This allows, for example, to split the resources of bigger clusters across multiple virtual nodes, or to have nodes with specific resources (e.g. GPUs) or characteristics (e.g. specific architectures).
It can also be used to share huge resource pools with another cluster while keeping the virtualnodes size quite small, avoiding a "black hole" effect during scheduling.

There are many more news and features, and we are planning to publish some blog posts to address those.

```

Author: I cannot fully understand what "pod-based communication instead of host-based services" means. Is it "pod-based communication between user pods and the Liqo gateway instead of host-based services"?
